To work with a Ethereum,
you're going to need an API that can make calls to and from the blockchain.
That's exactly what Web3 can do for you,
and in this section, I'll give you some quick tips for getting started.
Later in this concept, I'll run through the installation and
setup you'll need to go through to get up and running for yourself.
One note about how powerful Web3 is,
is that you've actually used it already,
maybe without realizing it.
MetaMask runs entirely based off this ability
to inject a Web3 Provider into your browser.
Once MetaMask injects this Web3 Provider,
it uses Web3 to connect users to the Ethereum blockchain.
So, that's one example use case but there's so many others.
I just wanted to mention that the tool MetaMask that you now know as one of
the single most important connections between DApps and
their users is only possible because of Web3.
Hopefully that puts into perspective how useful this tool can be for you.
So, let's look a little bit at the resources available to get you started with Web3.
First, on their Docs homepage,
you can see that web3.js is a collection of libraries,
which allow you to interact with a local or remote Ethereum node.
This is done using either an HTTP or IPC connection.
In our case, we'll use it to interact with
remote and local Ethereum nodes using an HTTP connection.
From this page, you can learn more about getting started and
take a first look at some of the functionality it provides.
There's a ton of modules here,
and there's no reason to know all of them right away.
We'll focus on introducing them as they become relevant to our projects,
and you can continue exploring them later as you need more functionality.
Another great resource for getting started is the web3-js Ethereum Community Forums.
This forums dedicated to discussions related to
Web3 and could provide you with some valuable information.
Another option for forums is to turn back to
the Ethereum Gitter page for the room named web3.js.
Finally, there's the Ethereum JavaScript API wiki,
which is dedicated to getting you up and running with Web3.
I've put all these links down below the video so you can check them out
for yourselves as you learn more about Web3 in the lesson.
So, there some of the details behind why Web3 is important,
how it's used, and where you can go for some more information.
Coming up, we'll jump right in and get it installed on
your computer to start running your first Web3 commands.